README.md, before:

# local-elastic-stack
A simple one stop setup to start a local elastic stack on k8s. 

It uses ECK Operator (which is installed using kubectl). 

As an optional step this setup uses Ingress-Nginx (which is installed using helm). 

To make life easier a self signed certificate is provided. You can install it on your PC as a trusted authority to not get any warnings when using `https`` urls. 

All elastic operator stuff is installed in `elastic-system` namespace, while the stack it slef (elasticsearch, kibana, beats, apm) are  installed in a namespace called [devoops](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pg3uPXTDFbk). Ingress pods are installed in in the `ingress-nginx` namespace.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/72706/120281976-e7e1b800-c2b9-11eb-980f-d4a4c7b6773d.png)


## Steps
- Install [Docker for Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/). You can probably use this setup on minikube, but it has not been tested.
- Enable [kubernetes](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/kubernetes/) on your docker setup.  Make sure you have sufficent resources available. The setup has been tested on Mac and Windows.
- Confirm that your kubernetes setup is working by checking `kubectl get pods`  and/or `kubectl get nodes` 
- Make sure that `kubernetes.docker.internal` DNS name resolves to `127.0.0.1` i.e. run `nslookup kubernetes.docker.internal` and check the result. Look at settings for your docker for desktop. Otherwise edit `/etc/hosts` file for your machine. 
- Install [ECK](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-deploy-eck.html).

```
kubectl create -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/2.10.0/crds.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/2.10.0/operator.yaml

```



- Install nginx ingress using [helm quickstart](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/#quick-start).
```
kubectl create namespace ingress-nginx;
helm upgrade --install ingress-nginx ingress-nginx --repo https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx --namespace ingress-nginx --create-namespace --set controller.config.compute-full-forwarded-for='"true"' --set controller.config.use-forwarded-headers='"true"' --set controller.extraArgs.default-ssl-certificate=ingress-nginx/nginx-tls-secret;

```

- Apply the all-in-one.yml using 
```
kubectl apply -f all-in-one.yaml
```

- Browse to http://kubernetes.docker.internal/kibana and use elastic/elastic to login. You can also port forward kibana as following

```
kubectl port-forward service/kbdev-kb-http 5601 -n devoops
```

## Test
 - Use the following [sample](https://github.com/geoaxis/elastic-k8s-in-7mins-samples) repo to test the application
 
## Considerations 
 - This setup is meant for testing purposes only (to facilitate local development). It uses checked in default passwords/tokens on purpose. DON'T use those passwords and tokens in production. Alternatively comment out the lines that set the passwords/tokens and ECK will generate them for you witin K8s Secrets.
 - This sample uses Elastic enterprise features using ECK [license management](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-licensing.html) features. Please check the [EULA](https://www.elastic.co/eula) for the 30 day trial this software is distributed under.

Commit message:

Updates certificate and secrets insturctions

README.md, after:

# local-elastic-stack
A simple one stop setup to start a local elastic stack on k8s. 

It uses ECK Operator (which is installed using kubectl). 

As an optional step this setup uses Ingress-Nginx (which is installed using helm). 

To make life easier a self signed certificate is provided. You can install it on your PC as a trusted authority to not get any warnings when using `https`` urls. 

All elastic operator stuff is installed in `elastic-system` namespace, while the stack it slef (elasticsearch, kibana, beats, apm) are  installed in a namespace called [devoops](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pg3uPXTDFbk). Ingress pods are installed in in the `ingress-nginx` namespace.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/72706/120281976-e7e1b800-c2b9-11eb-980f-d4a4c7b6773d.png)


## Steps
- Install [Docker for Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/). You can probably use this setup on minikube, but it has not been tested.
- Enable [kubernetes](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/kubernetes/) on your docker setup.  Make sure you have sufficent resources available. The setup has been tested on Mac and Windows.
- Confirm that your kubernetes setup is working by checking `kubectl get pods`  and/or `kubectl get nodes` 
- Make sure that `kubernetes.docker.internal` DNS name resolves to `127.0.0.1` i.e. run `nslookup kubernetes.docker.internal` and check the result. Look at settings for your docker for desktop. Otherwise edit `/etc/hosts` file for your machine. 
- Install [ECK](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-deploy-eck.html).

```
kubectl create -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/2.10.0/crds.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/2.10.0/operator.yaml

```



- Install nginx ingress using [helm quickstart](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/#quick-start).
```
kubectl create namespace ingress-nginx;
kubectl create -n ingress-nginx secret tls nginx-tls-secret --cert=server.crt --key=server.key
helm upgrade --install ingress-nginx ingress-nginx --repo https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx --namespace ingress-nginx --create-namespace --set controller.config.compute-full-forwarded-for='"true"' --set controller.config.use-forwarded-headers='"true"' --set controller.extraArgs.default-ssl-certificate=ingress-nginx/nginx-tls-secret;

```

- Apply the all-in-one.yml using 
```
kubectl apply -f all-in-one.yaml
```

- We used a certificate in the step where we created nginx-tls-secret. To use the certificate just add it to your browser ( on windows it can be done by right clicking the crt file)
- Browse to http://kubernetes.docker.internal/kibana and use elastic/elastic to login. You can also port forward kibana as following

```
kubectl port-forward service/kbdev-kb-http 5601 -n devoops
```

## Test
 - Use the following [sample](https://github.com/geoaxis/elastic-k8s-in-7mins-samples) repo to test the application
 
## Considerations 
 - This setup is meant for testing purposes only (to facilitate local development). It uses checked in default passwords/tokens on purpose. DON'T use those passwords and tokens in production. Alternatively comment out the lines that set the passwords/tokens and ECK will generate them for you witin K8s Secrets.
 - This sample uses Elastic enterprise features using ECK [license management](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-licensing.html) features. Please check the [EULA](https://www.elastic.co/eula) for the 30 day trial this software is distributed under.
